# Collaboration
**Summary:** Here, we describe the ways you can use GitHub to collaborate with project partners. The key to collaboration is to use different branches for parts of the project. By creating a branch, you create a copy of the project at a given time. For example, you could create a separate branch for each member of the project, or a branch for each section of the analysis. This allows you to work on each branch separately, without creating any changes to the master file. You are then able to work on all the files in your branch and save them to your branch. You will then be able to merge your branch's changes to the master file. Depending on the project structure, you can pull in others to review your code at this point.

#### 1. Creating Branches 
Create a new branch using the following code. This will make a copy of the directory of your current branch. 
```
git branch new_branch
```

#### 2. Switch to the new branch. 
At this point, you've only created a new branch. You are still in the branch you originally started in. Switch branches by running the following. Confirm you've successfully switched branches by checking the status. 
```
git checkout new_branch
git status
```

#### 3. Edit your new branch, and commit your new branch to the online repo
This will save your edits to a different branch on GitHub. You will have this local branch saved on your computer.
```
git commit -m "message"
git push origin new_branch 
```

#### 4. Compare any changes and Add to Master File 
Now, the online repo has two branches. The master branch and the new_branch. From the website, you can compare these two branches to see what changes exist between the two. If others have been working on a separate branch and merged those changes to the master file, you will see both the changes you've made on your branch as well as the new additions in the master file. 

Once you're happy with your merge, you can create a pull request to add your changes to the master file. At this stage, you can add reviewers and notes. This way, others can check on your newly added code. 

#### 5. You can delete this branch now that you've finished your edits.
