# Privacy Concerns 
GitHub is designed to be open source. While you can choose to have your repositories listed as "private," this does not mean they are as secure on GitHub as they would be on CorpFS. For this reason, I don't recommend we use GitHub for storing data. Code, however, it easy to share on GitHub. Given that everyone has access to a copy of the same raw data -- there is no need to share data on GitHub -- only code.

As we navigate GitHub, I encourage us all to be cognizant of the security concerns raised and to list them here to help others.

#### 1. Don't Use PII in Code 
When we clean files, sometimes we have to code a change in people's names, birthdays, or SSNs, due to typos. This may result in the following line of code.
```
replace ssn = "111-111-1111" if firstname == "Becca" & lastname == "Brough"
```

This is a pretty awful line to have in a GitHub do file.

Note, this problem does not necessarily arise when you're working with PII. Using PII variables does not make the code PII (example below) the problem scenario only arises when you reveal one's specific PII in the file.

```
mmerge firstname lastname ssn using `temp'
```

#### Solution: Create a separate do file 
The best (and easiest) solution is to create a separate do file that fixes all these mistakes. Then save this code in a folder outside of the synced GitHub folder. You can save the do file inside the git folder, but you would have to make sure that you don't accidentally "add" the file to GitHub when you're working inside that folder. 

In this example, my second do file (let's call it fix_typos.do) file would simply be: 
```
replace ssn = "111-111-1111" if firstname == "Becca" & lastname == "Brough"
```
Once you create this second do file, you can call it within the master code you upload to Git. 
```
use file.dta, clear 
cd "${code}/not-connected-to-github"
do fix_typos.do
cd "${code}/connected-to-github"
tempfile temp
save `temp'
mmerge firstname lastname ssn 
```
